Welcome to Introduction to Cloud Computing
and Cloud Deployment and Service Models. After watching this video, you will be able
to: Describe cloud computing concepts, define cloud deployment models and cloud service
models, and identify the characteristics of cloud
computing. Cloud computing, also referred to as the cloud,
is the delivery of on-demand computing resources such as networks, servers, storage, applications,
services, and data centers over the Internet on a pay-for-use basis. The term “cloud computing” can be used
to describe applications and data that users access over the Internet rather than on their
local computer. Examples of cloud computing include users
using online web apps, employees using secure online business applications to conduct their
work, and users storing personal files on cloud-based storage platforms such as Google
Drive, OneDrive, and Dropbox. One of the main user benefits of cloud computing
is that instead of users needing to purchase their own applications and install them locally
on their computer, they can use online versions of those applications and pay a monthly subscription. Not only is this typically more cost-effective
initially, but users can also access the latest version of the application without having
to purchase a full retail copy of the newer version. A side advantage of this is that the user
also saves lots of local storage space as the application is hosted online. And, the beauty of most cloud-based applications
is that they also enable users to work collaboratively with their colleagues, working on the same
files in real time and being able to see each other’s edits and updates. Cloud computing is composed of five essential
characteristics, three deployment models, and three service models. Let’s start with understanding the five
essential characteristics of the cloud. On-demand self-service means that you get
access to cloud resources such as the processing power, storage, and network you need, using
a simple interface, without requiring human interaction with each service provider. Broad network access means that cloud computing
resources can be accessed via the network through standard mechanisms and platforms
such as mobile phones, tablets, laptops, and workstations. Resource pooling is what gives cloud providers
economies of scale, which they pass on to their customers, making cloud cost-efficient. Using a multitenant model, computing resources
are pooled to serve multiple consumers, and cloud resources are dynamically assigned and
reassigned according to demand, without customers needing to know the physical location of these
resources. Rapid elasticity implies that you can access
more resources when you need them, and scale back when you don’t, because resources are
elastically provisioned and released. And measured service means that you only pay
for what you use or reserve as you go. If you’re not using resources, you’re
not paying. Resource usage is monitored, measured, and
reported transparently based on consumer utilization. As you have seen, cloud computing is really
about using technology “as a service,” leveraging remote systems on-demand over the
open Internet, scaling up and scaling back, and paying for what you use. And it has changed the way the world consumes
compute services, by making them more cost-efficient while also making organizations more agile
in response to changes in their markets. Cloud deployment models indicate where the
infrastructure resides, who owns and manages it, and how cloud resources and services are
made available to users. There are three types of cloud deployment
models: public, private, and hybrid. Public cloud is when you leverage cloud services
over the open internet on hardware owned by the cloud provider, but its usage is shared
by other companies. Private cloud means that the cloud infrastructure
is provisioned for exclusive use by a single organization. It could run on-premises or it could be owned,
managed, and operated by a service provider. And when you use a mix of both public and
private clouds, working together seamlessly, that is classified as the hybrid cloud model. Now, let’s look at the three cloud service
models that are based on the three layers in a computing stack: infrastructure, platform,
and application. These cloud computing models are aptly referred
to as Infrastructure as a Service (or IaaS), Platform as a Service (or PaaS), and Software
as a Service (or SaaS). In an IaaS model, you can access the infrastructure
and physical computing resources such as servers, networking, storage, and data center space
without the need to manage or operate them. In a PaaS model, you can access the platform
that comprises the hardware and software tools that are usually needed to develop and deploy
applications to users over the Internet. And an SaaS is a software licensing and delivery
model in which software and applications are centrally hosted and licensed on a subscription
basis. It is sometimes referred to as “on-demand
software.” In this video, you learned that: Cloud computing is the delivery of on-demand
computing resources over the Internet on a pay-for-use basis. Cloud computing is composed of five essential
characteristics, three deployment models, and three service models. The five essential characteristics of cloud
computing are on-demand self-service, broad network access, resource pooling, rapid elasticity,
and measured service. There are three types of cloud deployment
models: public, private, and hybrid. And the three cloud service models are based
on the three layers in a computing stack (infrastructure, platform, and application), and they are referred
to as Infrastructure as a Service (or IaaS), Platform as a Service (or PaaS), and Software
as a Service (or SaaS).