Welcome to the Deep Learning and Machine Learning
lesson summary. In this video, we’ll review what you learned
about Deep Learning and Machine Learning from the videos and reading in this lesson. We will recap:
Many of the terms commonly used in artificial intelligence and how to differentiate them,
How data scientists use Artificial intelligence OR AI,
The relationship between machine learning and data science, And
the regression model used to show relationships between things. Artificial intelligence (AI) has boomed and
become accessible to almost everyone. Data scientists use AI regularly when analyzing
data. Let’s discuss some of the terms used in
this lesson related to AI, such as machine learning, deep learning, neural networks,
and generative AI. AI is the branch of computer science that
includes the development of systems that can mimic many of the tasks associated with human
intelligence. Machine learning is a subset of AI that uses
computer algorithms to learn about data and make predictions with it without needing to
explicitly program the analysis methods into the system. Deep learning is a subset of machine learning
that uses layered neural networks to simulate human decision-making. A neural network is a collection of small
computing units, called neurons, that take incoming data and learn to make decisions
over time, such as the difference between a dog and a cat. Deep learning algorithms become more efficient
as the amount of data increases in volume, unlike other machine learning algorithms,
which tend to plateau. Another subset of AI, generative AI, focuses
on producing new data rather than just analyzing existing data. It allows machines to create content, including
images, music, languages, and computer code, mimicking human creations. Generative AI also can make data sets with
similar traits to a raw data set. Sometimes, data scientists, when they do not
have enough data, can create synthetic data and use it to train and test their models. As a data scientist, you will use machine
learning algorithms to derive insights from data. You will frequently apply machine learning
algorithms for predictive analytics or make recommendations. For example, you may also use these algorithms
for fraud detection to identify fraudulent credit card purchases based on previous purchasing
habits. Machine learning algorithms rely heavily on
statistical technique called regression. Regression identifies the strength and amount
of the correlation between one or more inputs and an output. For instance, how much does the price of a
house increase based on its square footage and number of bedrooms, and how confident
can you be of this relationship? In summary, Generative AI produces new data
like a raw data set. deep learning is a subset of machine learning,
and machine learning is a subset of artificial intelligence. Deep learning utilizes neural networks to
teach itself patterns in inputs and outputs. Using big data, data scientists use all of
these areas of AI to make predictions.