[MUSIC] Welcome to the Careers and Recruiting and
Data Science, Lesson Summary video. In this lesson, you investigated
what companies seek in a competent, experienced data scientist. You learned how to position yourself
to get hired as a data scientist. Amidst the diverse backgrounds
from which data scientists emerge, you also find they share qualities and skills that consistently set them
apart from other data related roles. Companies recruiting data scientists
may seem to want data scientists to have it all. They may seek a person who has all
the desired skills, ranging from domain specific knowledge to proficiency
in analyzing both structured and unstructured data, as well as skills
in presenting and storytelling. Realistically, this person is a rare find. Instead, companies need to develop teams
of people who work together who have these skills rather than seeking out individuals
who have all of these qualities. They also may need to seek out
individuals with potential and help them develop the skills they need. What really matters is they find someone
passionate about the kind of business that they do. Companies should look for someone excited about working with
the data in their particular industry. They should seek out someone
curious who can ask interesting, meaningful questions about the types
of data they intend to collect. For example, a person who could be a great
data scientist in the retail environment may not be excited about
working in IT related firms or working with gigabytes of
health related web logs. Companies will find that excitement
results in high productivity. That excitement also
relates back to curiosity, which we discussed in another lesson as
an important trait for a data scientist. Someone excited about their field
is likely to be curious and find the right questions to ask. Constantly wondering why things are the
way that they are helps you stay motivated and engaged. Similarly, self-learning and
tinkering are also helpful traits. As a data scientist,
you should love to play with data and create data visualizations. You need to think analytically and
computationally. You need a strong background in
mathematics, statistics, and probability to reach valid
conclusions with that data. You also need computer programming skills. Tools may vary with the type
of data that you'll work with. Though common languages include Python and R, an open source programming language
developed for statistical analysis. Because data scientists work with
large quantities of stored data, you must also understand data storage and
retrieval systems with structured and unstructured data. With artificial intelligence, you also
need to know common machine learning algorithms to gain
insights from their data. One or more persons from the data science
team at an organization will write a report as the final step of the
analysis, so communication, instructional and presentational skills, and
storytelling skills are also important. The report synthesizes these large amounts
of data to create a narrative that engages and surprises the reader. A clearly organized and logical report
should communicate the following to the reader, what they gain by reading
the report, clearly defined goals, the significance of your contribution. Appropriate context by giving
sufficient background, why this work is practical and useful, and conjugate plausible future developments
that might result from your work. As Dr. Hader explained, imagine your
reader is driving on a mountain. There's a sharp turn ahead, and
they can't see what's beyond the turn. They go around the curve and suddenly they
see a tremendous valley in front of them, they experience this great sense of awe. So, when you were presenting this great
finding and communicating it well, this is what people feel because
they were not expecting it. In summary, companies need to look for
individuals to create a data science team and be cautious about trying to find all
the desired skills in a single individual. On that team, they should have curious
people who understand the subject matter well, people who love working with
the data and those with statistics, mathematics, machine learning and
computer programming expertise. Lastly and possibly most importantly, they
need a skilled storyteller who can present the team's findings in a creative and
engaging way. [MUSIC]