Welcome to the data science application lesson
summary video. In this video, let’s review what you’ve
learned in this lesson about the power of data science applications and how organizations
leverage this power to drive business goals, improve efficiency, make predictions, and
even save lives. You also reviewed the process that you will follow as a data scientist to
help your organization accomplish these ends. All organizations ultimately use data science
for the same reason— to discover optimal solutions to existing problems. But to discover
these solutions, your organization should identify the problem and establish a clear
understanding of it. Measurement is the first step for an organization
to solve its problems using data. You need to capture and gather your data.
If something is not measured, it’s challenging to improve or change it. If your organization
isn’t capturing the data, help them to figure out how to capture it.
Never overwrite old data – it’s always relevant and never gets old.
Once you have the data, you can start looking at it and cleaning it.
As a data scientist, it’s your job to help your organization identify tools and develop
an analysis strategy. Consider case studies when customizing a potential solution.
Identify your analysis tools, and then develop your machine learning and statistical models.
It will take time for your organization to refine data strategy best practices, but the
benefits are worth it. Everyone who uses the Internet generates mass
amounts of data daily, often without being aware of it.
Your company can leverage that data to reveal patterns. Take, for instance, a company like
Amazon. You’ll notice that it starts making recommendations
related to your search. That’s called a recommendation engine; data
scientists build those engines using machine learning and statistical models.
Companies like UPS use data science to inform their business decisions.
They use data from customers, drivers, and vehicles to create routes for their drivers,
making more efficient use of the drivers’ time, money, and fuel.  Uber uses data to
put the correct number of drivers in the right place at the right time,
for a price the rider is willing to pay. Initiatives like this show how data science fundamentally
changes how businesses compete and operate. Businesses also use data science to gain competitive
advantages. Take streaming companies as an example. They collect and analyze massive
amounts of data from millions of users, including which shows they watch and at what time
of day. They detect when people pause, rewind, and
fast-forward. They collect information such as which directors and actors they search
for. A streaming company can confidently predict
the success of a show before filming begins by thoroughly analyzing its users’ preferences
and behaviors. Beyond helping businesses with their bottom
line, data science helps companies and organizations save lives. In healthcare, data scientists
use predictive analytics developed from data mining, data modeling, statistics, and machine
learning to find the best options for patients. This type of predictive analytics examines
factors for a disease, including  gene markers, associated conditions, and environmental factors.
Data scientists use their models to help physicians, recommend appropriate tests, suitable trials,
and suggest treatments. Developing more extensive data analytics capabilities
supports healthcare organizations move from basic descriptive analytics towards predictive
insights, thanks to data science. Data science tools enable organizations to
analyze vast amounts of data from various sources. Large, high-quality data sets can
help predict the occurrence of natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tornados,
floods, and volcanic eruptions. The data scientists present that information in a way that allows
organizations to gain new understandings and, in some cases, save lives.
When presenting your findings, you will provide your organizations with a final deliverable
that explains and summarizes their conclusions. In academia, the final deliverable comprises
research papers and reports. You often present the final deliverable illustrated with tables
and plots in consulting and business. You will generate analytics-driven reports to
communicate your findings to your organization and, in the process, establish powerful, convincing,
and evidence-based narratives.