[MUSIC] Welcome to the big data and
data mining lesson summary video. In this lesson, you gained insights into
the impact of big data on various aspects of society,
from business operations to sports. And developed an understanding
of key attributes and challenges associated with big data. In this video,
we will recap fundamentals of big data and how big data drives
digital transformation. How data scientists leverage the essential
characteristics of the Cloud to gain insights from big data,
the data mining process, and common tools used to process big data. The availability of vast amounts of data,
resulting in what we now call big data, is driving transformation in business and
industry and consequently, how we live our daily lives. Organizations realize that we require
fundamental changes to their approach to business, impacting every
aspect of the organization. The availability of so many disparate
amounts of data created by people, tools and machines requires new,
innovative, and scalable technology. Big data drives us to derive
real time business insights relating to consumers risk, profit,
performance productivity management, and ultimately enhancing business values. Not everyone agrees on
the definition of big data, but people generally agree on the five
characteristics of this data value, volume, velocity, variety and veracity. People expect investing time in
studying big data will create value. Volume refers to the scale of the data,
drivers of volume include increasing collectible data sources and
scalable infrastructure. Velocity indicates ever increasing sources
of nonstop processes that generate data quickly. Variety reflects that related data
comes from different sources, both structured and unstructured. Veracity refers to the quality and
origin of data and that it accurately conforms to facts. The development of cloud and cloud technologies enables
us to work with big data. Cloud refers to the delivery of
on-demand computing resources on a pay-for-use basis. Cloud computing has five essential
characteristics, on-demand, network access, resource pooling,
elasticity, and measured service. On-demand means access to processing,
power, storage and network that you need. These computing resources can be accessed
via a network with Internet access. Resource pooling allows providers
to service multiple consumers with the resources dynamically
assigned according to demand, making cloud computing cost efficient. Elasticity means that you can access
resources as you need them and automatically scale back when you don't. With measured service, you only pay for
what you use or reserve as you go. You also gain an understanding of how
cloud computing addresses challenges related to scalability,
collaboration, accessibility. And software maintenance,
making it a valuable resource for data analysis and
other computational tasks. The Cloud gives you instant access to
technologies without needing to install or configure them, and provides updated versions of
these tools as they get released. Popular open source tools to compute
using big data include Apache Hadoop, Apache Hive, and Apache Spark. Hadoop provides distributed storage and processing tools across
clusters of computers. Hive is a data warehouse for data query
and analysis built on top of Hadoop. Hive allows you to read, write and
manage large datasets directly in the Hadoop File system or
HDFS or Apache HBase. Spark provides a general purpose data
processing engine designed to extract and process large volumes of data for
a wide range of applications. Big data requires a process called
data mining to make use of. This six step process includes goal
setting, selecting data sources, preprocessing, transforming,
mining, and evaluation. In the first step, goal setting, you
identify key questions you want to answer, concerns about cost and
benefits should inform this step. Once you identify the questions,
select the data by identifying sources or planning data collection initiatives. In the next step, preprocessing, you
identify irrelevant attributes of data and erroneous aspects of the data
by flagging them as necessary. After preprocessing, you transform the data by determining
the appropriate format to store the data. Now you get to mine the data, which
includes determining analysis methods and the machine learning algorithms
you will use to process the data. Once the data has been mined,
you finally must evaluate your outcomes. By testing the predictive capabilities of
the models on the observed data to find effectiveness and
efficiency of your algorithms. In addition,
you share your results with stakeholders. This entire process should be conducted
iteratively as your results from this iteration will inform
further data mining efforts. In summary, big data characteristics
that data scientists agree on, even though they might not agree on the
exact definition, include value, volume, velocity, and veracity. Data with these qualities is driving
transformation across industries and in our daily lives. In large part, cloud technologies enable
us to handle big data because they provide ubiquitous access to
computational power and storage capacity. Open source cloud tools such as Hadoop,
Hive, and Spark leverage these advantages, allowing us to effectively and
efficiently mine big data. [MUSIC]