Welcome to Additional
Anaconda Jupyter Environments After watching this video, you will be able to describe Anaconda and its data science features, describe Anaconda Jupyter environments, and identify tools in Anaconda Jupyter environments. Computational notebooks combine code,
computational output, explanatory text, and multimedia resources into a single document. Jupyter Notebook is a popular type
of computational notebook because it supports dozens of programming languages. JupyterLab and VS Code are
popular environments for creating and modifying Jupyter
Notebooks on a local device. JupyterLab is an open-source, web-based
application based on Jupyter Notebook. You can create code, interactive visualizations, text, and equations, just
like with Jupyter Notebook. JupyterLab includes expanded features
with some of Anaconda's most extensive pre-installed Python libraries,
including NumPy, Pandas, and Matplotlib. Anaconda is a free and open-source
distributor for Python and R, the top languages used in data
science and machine learning. Anaconda has fifteen hundred plus libraries. It is free to install and has free community
support for any users who need help with Python. The downloadable Anaconda Navigator graphical
user interface allows users to install new packages on their local device without
using a command line interface or ‘CLI.’ You can download Anaconda
Navigator from the given URL. Here is the home page of the Anaconda Navigator. To launch JupyterLab, click
Launch in the JupyterLab box. If the Launch button is missing, click
Install first, and then click Launch. To start with the Jupyter Notebook, type Jupyter Notebook(anaconda3)
in the search bar and press enter. The JupyterLab dashboard opens
in the browser on the localhost. It is specifically designed
to manage Jupyter Notebooks. To create a new Jupyter Notebook,
click New and select Python 3. This opens a new notebook in a new tab. You will see the URL, which shows
the filename and the kernel. It also shows the Last Checkpoint. Let’s rename your notebook by clicking Untitled. Type a name for the notebook and click Rename. Next, you will review two main
cell types: Code and Markdown. In the dropdown menu, select Code. A code cell contains code to be executed
in the kernel and displays its output. To execute the cell, click Run. Alternatively, in the dropdown
menu, select Markdown. A Markdown cell contains rich text and
displays its output in place when it executes. To download a notebook, go to
File and click Download as. You will see several download options. You can select the option you want. VS Code is a free, open-source code editor
for debugging and task-running operations. VS code works on Linux, Windows, and macOS. It supports multiple languages, syntax
highlighting, auto-indentation, and more. VS Code is one of the most popular
development environment tools. If you prefer to install VS code separately, without using Anaconda Navigator,
you can go to code.visualstudio.com, click the download option that applies to your
device, then follow the install instructions. A separate installation of VS Code will
work the same as in Anaconda Navigator, but it will not configure for
Anaconda, Python, or Jupyter Notebooks. To open VS Code using Anaconda Navigator, open Anaconda Navigator, find the VS
Code application, and click Launch. Once installed, you will
see the Get Started screen. You need to install a few extensions
to execute Python code in VS Code. First, click Extensions or use Ctrl
+ Shift + X keys to open Extensions. Then search for “Python”; all the
extensions related to Python will appear. Once you install the extensions, click File. Then select New File. In New File, select Jupyter Notebook. The notebook will look like this. Notice that the kernel is Python. Write your
code and then execute it using the RUN icon. You will get a confirmation that your
code has been executed successfully. And finally, navigate to File and select Save. In this video, you learned that Jupyter is a popular computational notebook tool because it supports dozens
of programming languages. The Anaconda Navigator GUI can launch
multiple applications on a local device. Jupyter environments in the Anaconda
Navigator include JupyterLab and VS Code. And you can download Jupyter environments
separately from the Anaconda Navigator, but they may not be configured properly.