Welcome to “Introduction to R Language”. After watching this video, you will be able to: compare open source with free software, identify the users of the R language, list the benefits of using R, and list the global communities for
connecting with other R users. According to the results of the 2019 Kaggle
Data Science survey, which had over ten thousand respondents worldwide, learning
three languages can earn you an increment! And R offers many possibilities. Now, Python is open source, while R is free software.
Let us compare the open source and free software. The similarities are that both are free to use. Both commonly refer to the same set of licenses. For example, many open-source projects
use the General Public License (GNU). Both support collaboration. And in many cases, these terms can be
used interchangeably (but not all). Now, let’s discuss the differences
between open source and free software. The Open-Source Initiative
(OSI) champions open source, while the Free Software Foundation
(FSF) defines free software. Open source is more business focused, while free
software is more focused on a set of values. So, why R? You should learn R
because it is free software. You can use the language in the same
way that you contribute to open source. In addition, it allows for private use,
commercial use, and public collaboration. R is another language supported by a wide global community of people who want to use
the language to solve big problems. Statisticians, mathematicians,
and data miners use R to develop statistical software, graphing, and data analysis. R Language's array-oriented syntax
makes it easier to translate from math to code for learners with no
or minimal programming background. According to Kaggle’s Data Science
and Machine Learning survey, most programmers learn R after a few
years into their data science career. And R is mostly popular in academia. In addition, companies that
use R include IBM, Google, Facebook, Microsoft, Bank of America,
Ford, TechCrunch, Uber, and Trulia. R has become the world’s largest
repository of statistical knowledge. As of 2018, R has more than 15,000
publicly released packages making it possible to conduct complex
exploratory data analysis. R integrates well with other computer
languages like C++, Java, C, .Net, and Python. Using R, common mathematical operations like
matrix multiplication give immediate results. And R has stronger object-oriented programming facilities than most
statistical computing languages. Now, there are many ways to connect with
other R users around the globe. For connecting to other users, you
can use communities such as useR, WhyR, SatRdays, and R-ladies. And in addition, you can check out the R project
website for R conferences and events. In this video, you learned that: The Open-Source Initiative
(OSI) champions open source, while the Free Software Foundation
(FSF) defines free software. Python is open source, and R is free software. R language’s array-oriented syntax
makes it easier to translate from math to code for learners with none
or minimal programming background. And R has become the world’s largest
repository of statistical knowledge.