Welcome to “Introduction to SQL”. After watching this video, you will be able to: explain SQL and relational databases, define the SQL elements, and list the benefits of using SQL. SQL is a bit different than the other languages. Officially it is pronounced as “ess
cue el” though some call it “sequel”. And while the acronym stands for
“Structured Query Language”, many people consider SQL different
from other software development languages because it is a non-procedural language. Its scope is limited to
querying and managing data. While it is not a “Data Science” language, data scientists regularly use it
because it is simple and powerful! Some other facts about SQL are that it is
older than python and R by about 20 years. It first appeared in 1974
and was developed at IBM! This language is useful in
handling structured data, which is the data incorporating
relations among entities and variables. SQL was designed for managing
data in relational databases. Here you can see a diagram showing the
general structure of a relational database. A relational database is formed by
collections of two-dimensional tables, for example, Datasets and Excel Spreadsheets. Each of these tables is then formed by a fixed
number of columns and any possible number of rows. However, although SQL was originally
developed for use with relational databases, because of its pervasiveness and ease of use, SQL interfaces have also been developed
for many NoSQL and big data repositories. The SQL language is subdivided into
several language elements, including: Clauses, Expressions, Predicates,
Queries, and Statements. So, what makes SQL great? Knowing SQL will help you get many
different jobs in data science, such as a business and data analyst. This knowledge is also a must in data engineering. When performing operations with
SQL, the data is accessed directly, without needing to copy the data separately, which
can considerably speed up workflow executions. SQL behaves like an interpreter
between you and the database. SQL is an American National Standards Institute
(or ANSI) standard, which means if you learn SQL and use it with one database, you can apply your
SQL knowledge to many other databases easily. Now, many different SQL databases are
available, including the following: MySQL, IBM DB2, PostgreSQL, Apache
Open Office Base, SQLite, Oracle, MariaDB, Microsoft SQL Server, and more. The syntax of the SQL you write may change based on the relational database
management system you are using. If you want to learn SQL, you
should focus on a specific relational database and then plug into
the community for that specific platform. In addition, there are many available
great introductory courses on SQL! In this video, you learned that: SQL is different from other software development
languages because it is a non-procedural language. SQL’s scope is limited to
querying and managing data. SQL was designed for managing
data in relational databases. SQL behaves like an interpreter
between you and the database. And if you learn SQL and use it with one database, you can apply your SQL knowledge
to many other databases easily.