Welcome to this course about
tools for data science. This course is designed for all learners who want to
become data scientists. As a data scientist, you will be working with data, and this course will provide
you with knowledge about various tools that
you can use to analyze and derive conclusions. You can go through this course with or without
programming knowledge. Now, a data scientist's tool
kit consists of many tools, and in this course,
you will explore a variety of them in
the following modules. Module 1, overview of
data science tools. Module 2, languages
of data science. Module 3, libraries, APIs, datasets, and models. Module 4, Jupyter Project. Module 5, RStudio and GitHub. Module 6, final project, create a Jupyter Notebook. In Module 1, you will learn about the
different categories of data science tools and examples of open source and commercial offerings
in each category. In addition, you will learn
how the tools overlap in functionality and what
their pros and cons are. Module 2 will give
you an overview of the commonly used
languages that are available in data
science like Python, R, Scala, Java, Julia, and SQL, and what
they are used for. In the third module, you will
learn about libraries that contain built in modules providing different
functionalities. You will also learn that an application
programming interface or API allows communication
between two pieces of software. Finally, you will learn how machine learning or
ML uses algorithms, also known as models, to identify patterns
in the data. In Module 4, you will learn about
Project Jupyter, one of the most commonly
used environments among data scientists. You will explore the
three main applications of Project Jupyter:
Jupyter Notebook, JupyterLab, and JupyterLite. In addition, you will
be introduced to commercial Jupyter based
applications such as IBM Watson Studio
and Google Colab; and this module also
gives an overview of Jupyter distributions
that can be installed on your own
system like Anaconda. Module 5 will start with an introduction
to R and RStudio. You will learn about the different R
visualization packages and how to create visual charts
using the plot function. In addition, you will
learn about GitHub, a popular version
control platform that data scientists can use for sharing their projects and showcasing their portfolios. In Module 6, you will work on your
final project in which you will create and share
your Jupyter Notebook. There's a lot to cover here. To get the most
from this course, complete viewing each video, complete all hands-on labs, and check your learning
with each quiz. We are very happy to
have you with us as you start your tools for
data science journey, if you have any trouble with
any of the course material, please don't hesitate to contact us in the
discussion forum. So let's get started
and good luck.